## What is a data type?

```java
public String breed = "German Shepard";  // This is how u can create a variable
public int height = 30;
public int weight = 35;
```
- Above, the name of the variable is "breed" and the data its storing is "German Shepard",
and it's holding a string. Here the data type is string.
- In height the variable is storing an integer so the variable's data type is int. 
- Every data type specifies the memory length and the type of data it stores. 
- Certain data types are meant to hold specific type of data, like the `String` data type can't
hold a number.
- Before actually naming the variable name we specify the data type.

## Different types of Data types: 

1.) **Primitive Data Types**: 
a.) Numeric: Number type of data like phone number, age etc. Under Numeric type of data we have data that have NO decimals and some do have decimals. Every data type that seem similar, usually differ based on the memory length they offer. Some data types are made for BIG variables, using them for small once wastes lot of memory in your computer. 
Byte, Short, Integer, Long are wrapper classes, notice these start with upper case. Any operation you do, must be on the wrapper class not its primitive version. 
We are storing our data so we use the memory of our computer, so its important to know the size of your data type. 
  - Integer Type:
      - Byte: byte: 1 byte
      - Short: short: 2 bytes
      - Integer: int: 4 bytes
      - Long: long: 8 bytes
  - Decimal Type
      - Float: float: 4 bytes
      - Double: double: 8 bytes

b.) Boolean: True / False, that's it. 
  - Boolean: boolean: 1 bit

c.) Character: Ascii(from numbers to strings anything). But only 1 character can be stored not multiple things. 
  - Character: char: 2 bytes

2.) Non-Primitve: No pre-defined rules or size. In all of these you use multiple data, and YOU need to define what sort of primitive data is being used. 

a.) Arrays
b.) Collections
c.) Interface
d.) Class